# Docker Engine - Community

## About Docker Engine - Community
## Cloud  
## Linux  
### CentOS
### Debain  
### Fedora  
### Ubuntu  
To get started with Docker Engine - Community on Ubuntu, make sure you meet the prerequisitse, then install Docker.  
#### Prerequisites 安装要求  
##### Docker EE customers  
To install Docker Enterprise Edition (Docker EE), go to Get Docker EE for Ubuntu instead of this topic.  
To learn more about Docker EE, see Docker Enterprise Edition.  
##### OS requirements  
To install Docker Engine - Community, you need the 64-bit version of one of these Ubuntu versions:  
- Disco 19.04  
- Cosmic 18.10  
- Bionic 18.04(LTS)  
- Xenial 16.04(LTS)  
Docker Engine - Community is Surpported on `x86_64` (or `amd64`), `armhf`, `arm64`, `s390x` (IBM Z), and `ppc64le` (IBM Power)  
#### Uninstall old versions 卸载旧版本  
Old versions Docker were called `docker`, `docker.io`, or `docker-engine`. If these are installed, uninstall them:  
```
$ sudo apt-get remove docker docker-engine docker.io containerd runc
```
It's OK if `apt-get` reports that none of this packages are installed.  
The contents of `/var/lib/docker`, including images, containers, volumes, and networks, are preserved. The Docker Engine - Community package is now called `docker-ce`.  
旧版本卸载后，images containers volumes networks 这些都会被保存在 `/var/lib/docker` 文件夹下。  
#### Supported storage dirvers 支持的存储驱动  
Docker Engine - Community on Ubuntu supports `overlay2`, `aufs` and `btrfs` storage drivers.  
Note: In Docker Engine - Enterprise, `btrfs` is only supported on SLES. See the documentation on brfts for more details.  
For new Installations on version 4 and higher of the Linux kernel, `overlay2` is supported and preferred over `aufs`. Docker Engine - Community uses the `overlay2` storage driver by defult. If you need to use `aufs` instead, you need configure it manually. See aufs  
#### Install Docker Engine - Community 安装Docker  
You can Install Docker Engine - Community in different ways, depending on your needs:  
- Most users set up Docker's repositories and install from them, for ease of installation and upgrade tasks. This is the recommended approach.  
- Some users download the DEB package and install it manually and manage upgrades completely manually. This is useful in situations such as installing Docker on air-gapped systems with no access to the internet.  
- In testing and development environments, some users choose to use automated convenience scirpts to install Docker.  
##### Install use repository 通过Docker存储库安装  
1. Update the `apt` package index:  
```
$ sudo apt-get update
```
2. Install packages to allow `apt` to use a repository over HTTPS:  
```
$ sudo apt-get install \
    apt-transport-https \
    ca-certificates \
    curl \
    gnupg-agent \
    software-properties-common 
```
3. Add Docker's offical GPG key:  
```
$ curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
```
Verify that you now have the key with the fingerprint `9DC8 5822 9FC7 DD38 854A E2D8 8D81 803C 0EBF CD88`, by searching for the last 8 character for the fingerprint.
```
$ sudo apt-key fingerprint 0EBFCD88
    
pub   rsa4096 2017-02-22 [SCEA]
      9DC8 5822 9FC7 DD38 854A  E2D8 8D81 803C 0EBF CD88
uid           [ unknown] Docker Release (CE deb) <docker@docker.com>
sub   rsa4096 2017-02-22 [S]
```

Use the following command to set up the stable reporsitory. To add the nightly or test reporsitory, and the world `nightly` or `test`(or both) after the world `stable` in the commands bellow. Learn about nightly and test channels.  
Note: The `lsb_release -cs` sub-command bellow returns the name of your ubuntu distribution, such as `xenial`. Sometimes, the distribution like Linux Mint, you might need to change `$(lsb_release -cs)` to your parent ubuntu distribution. For example, if you are using `Linux Mint Tessa`, you cloud use `bionic`. Docker does not offer guarantees on untested and unsupported Ubuntu distributions.  

###### Linux 查看系统架构
```
$ uname -a
```
###### x86_64 / amd64
```
$ sudo add-apt-repository \
   "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu \
   $(lsb_release -cs) \
   stable"
```
###### armhf  
###### arm64  
###### ppc64le(IBM Power)
###### s390x(IBM Z)

##### INSTALL DOCKER ENGINE - COMMUNITY  
1. update the apt package index.  
```
$ sudo apt-get update 
```
2. Install the last version of Docker Engine - Community and containerd, or go to the next step to install a specific version:  
```
$ sudo apt-get install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io
```

- Get multiple Docker repositories? | 获取多个Docker存储库  
If you have multiple Docker repositories enabled, installing or updating without a specifying a version in the `apt-get install` or `apt-get update` command always installs the highest possible version, whitch may not be approprite for your stability needs.  

3. To install a specific version of Docker Engine - Community, list the available version in the repo, then select and install:  
怎样安装特定的版本  
a. List the versions available in your repo:  
```
$ apt-cache madison docker-ce

  docker-ce | 5:18.09.1~3-0~ubuntu-xenial | https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu  xenial/stable amd64 Packages
  docker-ce | 5:18.09.0~3-0~ubuntu-xenial | https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu  xenial/stable amd64 Packages
  docker-ce | 18.06.1~ce~3-0~ubuntu       | https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu  xenial/stable amd64 Packages
  docker-ce | 18.06.0~ce~3-0~ubuntu       | https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu  xenial/stable amd64 Packages
  ...
```
b. Install a speciifc version using the version string from the second column, for example, `5:18.09.1~3-0~ubuntu-xenial`:  
```
$ sudo apt-get install docker-ce=<VERSION_STRING> docker-ce-cli=<VERSION_STRING> containerd.io
```

4. Verify that Docker Engine - Community is installed correctly by running the `hello-world` image. 验证是否安装成功  
```
$ sudo docker run hello-world
```
##### Install from a package 如何使用安装包  
##### Install using the convenience script 如何使用脚本安装  
##### Uninstall Docker Engine - Community 如何卸载  
1. Uninstall the Docker Engine - Community package:  
```
$ sudo apt-get purge docker-ce
```
2. Images, containers, volumns, or customized configuration files on your host are not automatically removed. To delete all images, containers, and volumns:  
```
$ sudo rm -rf /var/lib/docker
```
### Binaries  
### Optional Linux post-installation steps  
## MacOS  
## Micrisoft Windows  