# 7. Remoing Oracle Database Software

This chapter describes how to completely remove Oracle software and configuration files related to the specified Oracle home. It includes information about removing Oracle software using the deinstallation tool.

The `deinstall` command removes standalone Oracle Database installations, Oracle Clusterware and Oracle Automatic Storage Management (Oracle ASM) from your server, and also Oracle Real Application Clusters (Oracle RAC) and Oracle Database client installations.

Starting with Oracle Database 11g Release 2 (11.2), Oracle recommends that you use the deinstallation tool to remove the entire Oracle home associated with the Oracle Database, Oracle Clusterware, Oracle ASM, Oracle RAC, or Oracle Database client installation. Oracle does not support the removal of individual products or components.

The following sections describe the `deinstall` command, and provide information about additional options to use the command:

- About the Deinstallation Tool
- Downloading the Deinstallation Tool for Use with Failed Installations
- Example of Running the Deinstall Command
- Deinstallation Parameter File Example for Oracle Database
- Deinstallation Parameter File Example for Oracle Grid Infrastructure

---

#### Caution:
If you have a standalone database on a node in a cluster and you have multiple databases with the same global database name (GDN), then you cannot use the deinstall tool to remove one database only.

---
---

#### See Also:

- Oracle Grid Infrastructure Installation Guide and Oracle Real Application Clusters Installation Guide for Linux and UNIX for information about removing an Oracle RAC installation  
- The "Dropping Disk Groups" section in the Oracle Automatic Storage Management Administrator's Guide for information about removing an Oracle ASM disk group

---

## 7.1 About the Deinstallation Tool

The deinstallation tool (`deinstall`) is available in the installation media before installation, and is available in Oracle home directories after installation. It is located in the `$ORACLE_HOME/deinstall` directory.

The `deinstall` command uses the information you provide, plus information gathered from the software home to create a parameter file. You can alternatively`另外` supply a parameter file generated previously by the `deinstall` command using the `–checkonly` option, or by editing the response file template.

The deinstallation tool stops Oracle software, and removes Oracle software and configuration files on the operating system for a specific Oracle home. If you run the deinstallation tool to remove an Oracle Grid Infrastructure for a standalone server, then the deinstaller prompts you to run the `roothas.pl` script, as the `root` user, to deconfigure Oracle Restart.

---

#### Caution:
When you run the deinstall command, if the central inventory (oraInventory) contains no other registered homes besides the home that you are deconfiguring and removing, then the deinstall command removes the following files and directory contents in the Oracle base directory of the Oracle Database installation owner:

- admin
- cfgtoollogs
- checkpoints
- diag
- oradata
- fast_recovery_area

Oracle strongly recommends that you configure your installations using an Optimal Flexible Architecture (OFA) configuration, and that you reserve Oracle base and Oracle home paths for exclusive use of Oracle software. If you have any user data in these locations in the Oracle base that is owned by the user account that owns the Oracle software, then the deinstall command deletes this data.

The deinstallation tool deletes Oracle Database configuration files, user data, and fast recovery area (FRA) files even if they are located outside of the Oracle base directory path.

---

The `deinstall` command uses the following syntax, where variable content is indicated in italics:

```
deinstall -home complete path of Oracle home [-silent] [-checkonly] [-local] [-paramfile complete path of input parameter property file] [-params name1=value
name2=value . . .] [-o complete path of directory for saving files]
[-tmpdir complete path of temporary directory to use]
[-logdir complete path of log directory to use] [-help]
```

Oracle recommends that you run the deinstallation tool as the Oracle software installation owner. The default method for running the deinstallation tool is from the deinstall directory in the Oracle home as the installation owner:

```
$ $ORACLE_HOME/deinstall/deinstall
```

Provide information about your servers as prompted or accept the defaults.

The `deinstall` command stops Oracle software, and removes Oracle software and configuration files on the operating system.

---

#### Note:
You must run the deinstallation tool from the same release to remove Oracle software. Do not run the deinstallation tool from a later release to remove Oracle software from an earlier release. For example, do not run the deinstallation tool from the 12.1.0.1 installation media to remove Oracle software from an existing 11.2.0.4 Oracle home.

---

In addition, you can run the deinstallation tool from other locations, or with a parameter file, or select other options to run the tool.

The options are:

- -home  
Use this flag to indicate the home path of the Oracle home to check or deinstall. To deinstall Oracle software using the deinstall command in the Oracle home you plan to deinstall, provide a parameter file in another location, and do not use the -home flag.  
If you run deinstall from the $ORACLE_HOME/deinstall path, then the -home flag is not required because the tool knows from which home it is being run. If you use the standalone version of the tool, then -home is mandatory.

- -silent  
Use this flag to run the command in silent or response file mode. If you use the -silent flag, then you must use the -paramfile flag, and provide a parameter file that contains the configuration values for the Oracle home to deinstall or deconfigure.  
You can generate a parameter file to use or modify by running deinstall with the -checkonly flag. The deinstall command then discovers information from the Oracle home to deinstall and deconfigure. It generates the properties file, which you can then use with the -silent option.  
You can also modify the template file deinstall.rsp.tmpl, located in the $ORACLE_HOME/deinstall/response folder.

- -checkonly  
Use this flag to check the status of the Oracle software home configuration. Running the deinstall command with the -checkonly flag does not remove the Oracle configuration. The -checkonly flag generates a parameter file which you can then use with the deinstall command and the -silent option.

- -local  
Use this flag on a multinode environment to deinstall Oracle software in a cluster.  
When you run deinstall with this flag, it deconfigures and deinstalls the Oracle software on the local node (the node where deinstall is run). On remote nodes, it deconfigures Oracle software, but does not deinstall the Oracle software.

- -paramfile complete path of input parameter property file  
Use this flag to run deinstall with a parameter file in a location other than the default. When you use this flag, provide the complete path where the parameter file is located.  
The default location of the parameter file depends on the location of deinstall:  
    - From the installation media or stage location: $ORACLE_HOME/inventory/response
    - From a unzipped archive file from OTN: /ziplocation/response
    - After installation from the installed Oracle home: $ORACLE_HOME/deinstall/response

- -params [name1=value name 2=value name3=value . . .]  
Use this flag with a parameter file to override one or more values to change in a parameter file you have created.

- -o complete path of directory for saving response files  
Use this flag to provide a path other than the default location where the properties file (deinstall.rsp.tmpl) is saved.  
The default location of the parameter file depends on the location of deinstall:  
    - From the installation media or stage location before installation: $ORACLE_HOME/
    - From a unzipped archive file from OTN: /ziplocation/response/
    - After installation from the installed Oracle home: $ORACLE_HOME/deinstall/response

- -tmpdir complete path of temporary directory  
Use this flag to specify a non-default location where Oracle Deinstallation Tool writes the temporary files for the deinstallation.

- -logdir complete path of temporary directory  
Use this flag to specify a non-default location where Oracle Deinstallation Tool writes the log files for the deinstallation.

- -help  
Use the help option (-help) to get additional information about the command option flags.

Deinstalling Previous Release Grid Home

For upgrades from previous releases, if you want to deinstall the previous release Grid home, then as the root user, you must manually change the permissions of the previous release Grid home, and then run the deinstall command.

For example:

```
# chown -R grid:oinstall /u01/app/grid/11.2.0
# chmod -R 775 /u01/app/grid/11.2.0
```

In this example, `/u01/app/grid/11.2.0` is the previous release Grid home.

## 7.2 Downloading the Deinstallation Tool for Use with Failed Installations

If you require the deinstallation tool (`deinstall`) to remove failed or incomplete installations, then it is available as a separate download from the Oracle Technology Network (OTN) website.

To download the deinstallation tool:

1. Go to the following URL:  
http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/database/enterprise-edition/downloads/index.html
2. Under Oracle Database 11g Release 2, click See All for the respective platform for which you want to download the deinstallation tool.

The deinstallation tool is available for download at the end of this web page.

## 7.3 Example of Running the Deinstall Command

As the `deinstall` command runs, you are prompted`提示` to provide the home directory of the Oracle software to remove from your system. Provide additional`额外的` information as prompted.

Use the optional flag `-paramfile` to provide a path to a parameter file.

In the following example, the `deinstall` command is in the path `/u01/app/oracle/product/11.2.0/dbhome_1/deinstall`, and it uses a parameter file in the software owner location `/home/usr/oracle`:

```
$ cd /u01/app/oracle/product/11.2.0/dbhome_1/deinstall
$ ./deinstall -paramfile /home/usr/oracle/my_db_paramfile.tmpl
```

For the Oracle Grid Infrastructure`基础设施` home, use the deinstallation script in the Oracle Grid Infrastructure for a standalone server home, which in this example is `/u01/app/oracle/product/11.2.0/grid`:

```
$ cd /u01/app/oracle/product/11.2.0/grid/deinstall
$ ./deinstall -paramfile /home/usr/oracle/my_grid_paramfile.tmpl
```

If you enter the `deinstall` command outside of the `$ORACLE_HOME/deinstall` folder, then help is displayed, unless you enter a `-home` flag and provide a path. If you run the `deinstall` command from the `$ORACLE_HOME/deinstall` folder, then deinstallation starts without prompting you for a home address.

## 7.4 Deinstallation Parameter File Example for Oracle Database

You can run the `deinstall` command on a standalone Oracle Database with the `-paramfile` option to use the values you specify in the parameter file. The following is an example of a parameter file, in which the Oracle Database binary owner is `oracle`, the Oracle Database home (Oracle home) is in the path `/u01/app/oracle/product/11.2.0/dbhome_1/`, the Oracle base (where other Oracle software is installed) is `/u01/app/oracle/`, the central Oracle Inventory home (oraInventory) is `/u01/app/oraInventory`, the virtual IP address (VIP) is `192.0.2.1`, the local node (the node where you run the deinstallation session from) is `myserver`, and the OSDBA group is `dba`:

```
#Copyright (c) 2005, 2006 Oracle Corporation. All rights reserved.
#Mon Feb 16 06:48:39 UTC 2009
DISK_GROUPS.sidb=
ASM_HOME=
ASM_LOCAL_SID=
LOGDIR=/u01/app/oracle/product/11.2.0/dbhome_1/oraInventory/logs/
ORACLE_BASE.sidb=/u01/app/oracle/
RECOVERY_LOC.sidb=
STORAGE_TYPE.sidb=FS
ORACLE_BASE=/u01/app/oracle/
INVENTORY_LOCATION=/u01/app/oraInventory
DB_TYPE.sidb=SI_DB
NODE_LIST.sidb=myserver
ARCHIVE_LOG_DESTINATION_LOC.sidb=
LOCAL_SID.sidb=sidb
DB_UNIQUE_NAME_LIST=sidb
ASM_FILES.sidb=
HOME_TYPE=SIDB
CRS_HOME=false
RAW_MAPPING_FILE.sidb=
SID_LIST.sidb=sidb
ORACLE_BINARY_OK=true
DATAFILE_LOC.sidb=/u01/app/oracle/oradata
local=false
LOCAL_NODE=myserver
CREATION_MODE.sidb=y
CONFIGFILE_LOC.sidb=
DIAG_DEST.sidb=/u01/app/oracle/
silent=false
ORACLE_HOME=/u01/app/oracle/product/11.2.0/dbhome_1/
SPFILE_LOC.sidb=
```

### 7.5 Deinstallation Parameter File Example for Oracle Grid Infrastructure

You can run the `deinstall` command on an Oracle Grid Infrastructure for a standalone server home with the `-paramfile` option to use the values you specify in the parameter file.

The following is an example of a parameter file, in which the Oracle Grid Infrastructure binary owner is oracle, the Oracle Grid Infrastructure home is in the path `/u01/app/oracle/product/11.2.0/grid`, the Oracle base (where other Oracle software is installed) is `/u01/app/oracle/`, the central Oracle Inventory home (oraInventory) is `/u01/app/oraInventory`, the local node (the node where you run the deinstallation session from) is myserver, and the `OSDBA` group is `dba`:

```
#Copyright (c) 2005, 2009 Oracle Corporation.  All rights reserved.
#Thu Mar 05 11:36:03 PST 2009
LOCAL_NODE=myserver
HOME_TYPE=SIHA
ASM_REDUNDANCY=EXTERNAL
ORACLE_BASE=/u01/app/oracle/
SCAN_PORT=0
silent=false
ASM_UPGRADE=false
ORA_CRS_HOME=/u01/app/oracle/product/11.2.0/grid
GPNPCONFIGDIR=$ORACLE_HOME
LOGDIR=/home/oracle/tmp/deinstall/logs/
ASM_DISCOVERY_STRING=/u02/stor/asm*
GPNPGCONFIGDIR=$ORACLE_HOME
ORACLE_OWNER=oracle
ASM_DISKSTRING=
CRS_STORAGE_OPTION=0
ORACLE_BINARY_OK=true
OCR_VOTINGDISK_IN_ASM=false
ASM_ORACLE_BASE=/u01/app/oracle
NETCFGJAR_NAME=netcfg.jar
ORA_DBA_GROUP=dba
JREDIR=/u01/app/oracle/grid/jdk/jre/
ORA_ASM_GROUP=dba
LANGUAGE_ID='AMERICAN_AMERICA.WE8ISO8859P1'
CSS_LEASEDURATION=400
ASM_HOME=/u01/app/oracle/grid
SHAREJAR_NAME=share.jar
HELPJAR_NAME=help4.jar
SILENT=false
local=false
INVENTORY_LOCATION=/u01/app/oraInventory
GNS_CONF=false
JEWTJAR_NAME=jewt4.jar
EMBASEJAR_NAME=oemlt.jar
ASM_DISKS=/u02/stor/asm/asm0,/u02/stor/asm/asm2,/u02/stor/asm/asm3,/u02/stor/asm/asm1,/u02/stor/asm/asm4,/u02/stor/asm/asm5,/u02/stor/asm/asm6,
/u02/stor/asm/asm7,/u02/stor/asm/asm8
ORACLE_HOME=/u01/app/oracle/grid
CRS_HOME=true
ASM_IN_HOME=true
EWTJAR_NAME=ewt3.jar
ASM_DROP_DISKGROUPS=false
ASM_LOCAL_SID=+ASM
JLIBDIR=/u01/app/oracle/grid/jlib
VNDR_CLUSTER=false
ASM_DISK_GROUP=DATA
```