# Preface

This manual describes how to manage Oracle and third-party software using the Oracle Universal Installer and OPatch. This guide provides instructions for installing, setting up, and starting the Oracle Universal Installer software. It also provides instructions on cloning and patching Oracle software.

## Audience

This manual is intended`目的` for users installing`安装` Oracle software products using the Oracle Universal Installer and covers only`只包含` the generic`通用的` functionality`功能` and concepts`概念`. Use this manual in conjunction with`结合了` any product-specific installation guides available with your Oracle product.

## Documentation Accessibility

Our goal is to make Oracle products, services, and supporting documentation accessible to all users, including users that are disabled. To that end, our documentation includes features that make information available to users of assistive`辅助` technology. This documentation is available in HTML format, and contains markup`标记` to facilitate`便于` access by the disabled community`残疾人`. Accessibility standards will continue to evolve`进化` over time, and Oracle is actively engaged`积极参与` with other market-leading technology vendors`市场领先的技术供应商` to address technical obstacles`以解决技术障碍` so that our documentation can be accessible to all of our customers. For more information, visit the Oracle Accessibility Program Web site at http://www.oracle.com/accessibility/.

#### Accessibility of Code Examples in Documentation

Screen readers may not always correctly read the code examples in this document. The conventions`惯例` for writing code require that closing braces`关闭括号` should appear on an otherwise empty line; however, some screen readers may not always read a line of text that consists solely of a bracket or brace`只包含括弧或大括号`.

#### Accessibility of Links to External Web Sites in Documentation

This documentation may contain links to Web sites of other companies or organizations that Oracle does not own or control. Oracle neither evaluates`评估` nor makes any representations`做任何表示` regarding`关于` the accessibility`可访问性` of these Web sites.

#### TTY Access to Oracle Support Services

To reach Oracle Support Services, use a telecommunications`电信` relay service`电信转接服务` (TRS) to call Oracle Support at 1.800.223.1711.

## Conventions

The following text conventions are used in this document:

| Convention | Meaning |
| :- | :- |
| **boldface黑体** | Boldface type indicates graphical user interface elements associated with an action, or terms defined in text or the glossary.黑体类型表示与操作关联的图形用户界面元素，或文本或术语表中定义的术语 |
| *italic斜体* | Italic type indicates book titles, emphasis, or placeholder variables for which you supply particular values.斜体类型表示为其提供特定值的图书标题、强调或占位符变量 |
| `monospace` | Monospace type indicates commands within a paragraph, URLs, code in examples, text that appears on the screen, or text that you enter.Monospace类型表示段落中的命令、url、示例中的代码、屏幕上显示的文本或您输入的文本。 |

## Related Documents

For additional information, see the Oracle Fusion Middleware Patching Guide.