# Overview
Subversion was designed with an abstract repository access layer`抽象的存储库访问层`. This means that a repository can be programmatically accessed`通过编程方式访问` by any sort of server process`任何类型的服务进程`, and the client “repository access” API allows programmers to write plug-ins`插件` that speak relevant network protocols`使用相关网络协议的`. In theory`理论上`, Subversion can use an infinite`无限` number of network implementations. In practice`实际中`, there are only two Subversion servers in widespread`广泛` use today.

Apache is an extremely`极` popular web server; using the mod_dav_svn module, Apache can access a repository and make it available to clients via`通过` the WebDAV/DeltaV protocol, which is an extension of HTTP. Because Apache is an extremely extensible server`高可扩展的服务器`, it provides a number of features “for free,” such as encrypted SSL communication`加密的SSL通信`, logging, integration with a number of third-party authentication systems, and limited built-in web browsing of repositories`有限的内置web浏览存储库`.

In the other corner`角落` is svnserve: a small, lightweight server program that speaks a custom protocol with clients`与客户端使用自定义协议的小型轻量级服务器程序`. Because its protocol is explicitly`明确的` designed for Subversion and is stateful`是有状态的协议` (unlike HTTP), it provides significantly`显著的` faster network operations—but at the cost of some features as well`但同时也牺牲了一些功能`. While it can use SASL to provide a variety of authentication`多种的身份验证方式` and encryption options`加密选项`, it has no logging or built-in web browsing. It is, however, extremely easy to set up and is often the best option for small teams just starting out with Subversion.

The network protocol which svnserve speaks may also be tunneled`进行隧道传输` over an SSH connection`通过SSH连接`. This deployment option for svnserve differs quite a bit in features from a traditional svnserve deployment. SSH is used to encrypt all communication. SSH is also used exclusively`专门` to authenticate, so real system accounts are required on the server host (unlike vanilla svnserve, which has its own private user accounts). Finally, because this setup requires that each user spawn a private, temporary`临时的` svnserve process, it's equivalent (from a permissions point of view) to allowing a group of local users to all access the repository via file:// URLs. Path-based access control has no meaning, since each user is accessing the repository database files directly.

Table 6.1, “Comparison of subversion server options” provides a quick summary`总结` of the three typical server deployments.

Table 6.1. Comparison of subversion server options

| | | | |
| :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| Feature | Apache + mod_dav_svn | svnserve | svnserve over SSH |
| Authentication options | HTTP Basic or Digest auth, X.509 certificates, LDAP, NTLM, or any other mechanism available to Apache httpd | CRAM-MD5 by default; LDAP, NTLM, or any other mechanism available to SASL | SSH |
| User account options | Private “users” file, or other mechanisms available to Apache httpd (LDAP, SQL, etc.) | Private “users” file, or other mechanisms available to SASL (LDAP, SQL, etc.) | System accounts |
| Authorization options | Read/write access can be granted over the whole repository, or specified per path | Read/write access can be granted over the whole repository, or specified per path | Read/write access only grantable over the whole repository |
| Encryption | Available via optional SSL (https) | Available via optional SASL features | Inherent in SSH connection |
| Logging | High-level operational logging of Subversion operations plus detailed logging at the per-HTTP-request level | High-level operational logging only | High-level operational logging only |
| Interoperability | Accessible by other WebDAV clients | Talks only to svn clients | Talks only to svn clients |
| Web viewing | Limited built-in support, or via third-party tools such as ViewVC | Only via third-party tools such as ViewVC | Only via third-party tools such as ViewVC |
| Master-slave server replication`主从服务器的复制` | Transparent write-proxying available from slave to master | Can only create read-only slave servers | Can only create read-only slave servers |
| Speed | Somewhat slower | Somewhat faster | Somewhat faster |
| Initial setup | Somewhat complex | Extremely simple | Moderately simple |
