#  A.  Setting Up Apache Httpd

## Obtaining`获得` and Installing Apache Httpd 2

Subversion tries to compile against the latest released version
of Apache httpd 2.2+`根据最新版本的httpd 2.2+编译`.  The easiest thing for you to do is download
a source tarball`源码压缩文件` of the latest release and unpack that.

If you have questions about the Apache httpd 2.2 build, please consult
the [httpd install documentation](https://httpd.apache.org/docs-2.2/install.html)

At the top of the httpd tree:

```
$ ./buildconf
$ ./configure --enable-dav --enable-so --enable-maintainer-mode
```

The first arg says to build mod_dav.

The second arg says to enable shared module support`启用共享模块支持` which is needed
for a typical compile of mod_dav_svn (see below).

The third arg says to include debugging information`包含调试信息`.  If you
built Subversion with --enable-maintainer-mode, then you should
do the same for Apache; there can be problems if one was
compiled with debugging and the other without.

Note: if you have multiple db versions installed on your system,
Apache might link to a different one than Subversion, causing
failures when accessing the repository through Apache.  To prevent
this from happening, you have to tell Apache which db version to
use and where to find db.  Add `--with-dbm=db4` and
`--with-berkeley-db=/usr/local/BerkeleyDB.4.2` to the configure
line.  Make sure this is the same db as the one Subversion uses.
This note assumes you have installed Berkeley DB 4.2.52
at its default locations.  For more info about the db requirement,
see section I.C.7.

You may also want to include other modules in your build. Add
`--enable-ssl` to turn on SSL support, and `--enable-deflate` to turn on
compression support`压缩支持`, for example.  Consult the Apache documentation
for more details.

All instructions below assume you configured Apache to install
in its default location, `/usr/local/apache2/`; substitute`替换` appropriately`适当地` if you chose some other location.

Compile and install apache:

```
$ make && make install
```