# C.  Configuring Apache Httpd for Subversion

The following section is an abbreviated`缩写` version of the
information in the Subversion Book
(http://svnbook.red-bean.com).  Please read chapter 6 for more
details.

The following assumes you have already created a repository.
For documentation on how to do that, see README.

The following also assumes that you have modified
`/usr/local/apache2/conf/httpd.conf` to reflect your setup`反映你的设置`.
At a minimum you should look at the User, Group and ServerName
directives.  Full details on setting up apache can be found at [here](https://httpd.apache.org/docs-2.2/)

First, your httpd.conf needs to load the mod_dav_svn module.
If you pass `--enable-mod-activation` to Subversion's configure,
'make install' target should automatically add this line for you.
In any case, if Apache HTTPD gives you an error like "Unknown
DAV provider: svn", then you may want to verify that this line
exists in your httpd.conf:

```
LoadModule dav_svn_module     modules/mod_dav_svn.so
```

NOTE: if you built mod_dav as a dynamic module as well, make sure
the above line appears after the one that loads mod_dav.so.

Next, add this to the *bottom* of your httpd.conf:

```
<Location /svn/repos>
    DAV svn
    SVNPath /absolute/path/to/repository
</Location>
```

This will give anyone unrestricted access`不受限制的访问` to the repository.  If
you want limited access, read or write, you add these lines to
the Location block:

```
AuthType Basic
AuthName "Subversion repository"
AuthUserFile /my/svn/user/passwd/file
```

And:

- a) For a read/write restricted repository:
    
    ```
    Require valid-user
    ```

- b) For a write restricted repository:

    ```
    <LimitExcept GET PROPFIND OPTIONS REPORT>
        Require valid-user
    </LimitExcept>
    ```

- c) For separate restricted read and write access`单独的受限读写访问`:

    ```
    AuthGroupFile /my/svn/group/file

    <LimitExcept GET PROPFIND OPTIONS REPORT>
        Require group svn_committers
    </LimitExcept>

    <Limit GET PROPFIND OPTIONS REPORT>
        Require group svn_committers
        Require group svn_readers
    </Limit>
    ```

### FIXME Tutorials section refers to old 2.0 docs
These are only a few simple examples.  For a complete tutorial
on Apache access control, please consider taking a look at the
tutorials found under "Security" on the (following page)[https://httpd.apache.org/docs-2.0/misc/tutorials.html]

In order for 'svn cp' to work (which is actually implemented as a
DAV COPY command), mod_dav needs to be able to determine`确定` the
hostname of the server.  A standard way of doing this is to use
Apache's ServerName directive`指令` to set the server's hostname.  Edit
your `/usr/local/apache2/conf/httpd.conf` to include:

```
ServerName svn.myserver.org
```

If you are using virtual hosting through Apache's NameVirtualHost
directive, you may need to use the ServerAlias directive to specify
additional names that your server is known by.

If you have configured mod_deflate to be in the server, you can enable
compression support for your repository by adding the following line
to your Location block:

```
SetOutputFilter DEFLATE
```

NOTE: If you are unfamiliar with an Apache directive, or not exactly
sure about what it does, don't hesitate to look it up in the
[documentation](https://httpd.apache.org/docs-2.2/mod/directives.html.)

NOTE: Make sure that the user 'nobody' (or whatever UID the
httpd process runs as) has permission to read and write the
Berkeley DB files!  This is a very common problem.