# 13. Build Systems  
It is strongly recommended that you choose a build system that supports [dependency management]() and that can consume artifacts published to the "Maven Contral" repository. We would recommend that you choose Maven or Gradle. It is possible to get Spring Boot to work with other build systems(Ant, for example), but they are not particularly well supported.  

## 13.1 Dependency Management  
Each release of Spring Boot provides a curated list of dependencies that is supports.`[curated v.筹办；组织；策划；adj. 仔细挑选并展览的]`In practice, you do not need to provide a version for any of these dependencies in your build configuration, as Spring Boot manages that for you. When you upgrade Spring Boot itself, these dependencies area upgraded as well in a consistent way.`[consistent adj.一致的；坚持的]`  

You can still specify a version and override Spring Boot's recommendations if you need to do so.  

The curated list contains all the spring modules that you can use with Spring Boot as well as a refined list of third party libaries `[refined adj.精炼的；精确的；微妙的；有教养的]`. The list is available as a standard [Bills of Materials (spring-boot-dependencies)]() that can be used with both Maven and Gradle`[bills n.账单；清单][material n.材料；物质]`.  

Each release of Spring Boot is associated with a base version of the Spring Framework. We highly recomend that you not specify its version.  

## 13.2 Maven
Maven users can inherit from the `spring-boot-starter-parent` project to obtain sensible defaults `[inherit v.继承] [obtain v.获得] [sensible adj.明智的；合情的]`. The parent project provides the following features:  
- Java 1.8 as the default compiler level.  
- UTF-8 source encoding.  
- A Dependency Management section, inherited from the spring-boot-dependencies pom, that manages the versions of common dependencies. This dependency management lets you omit `<version>` tags from those dependencies when used in your own pom`[omit vt.省略]`.  
- An execution of the repackage goal with a `repackage` execution id.  
- Sensible resource filtering.`[sensible adj.合理的；明智的；意识到的，能感觉到的][filter v.过滤；渗透]`  
- Sensible plugin configuration(exec plugin, Git commit ID, and shade).  
- Sensible resource filtering for `application.properties` and `application.yml` including profile-specific files (for example, `application-dev.properties` and `application-dev.yml`)`[prifile n.侧面；轮廓；外形]`  

Note that, since the `application.properties` and `application.yml` files accept Spring style placeholders(`${...}`), the Maven filtering is changed to use `@..@` placeholders. (You can override that by setting a Maven property called `resource.delimiter`)`[delimiter n.定界符]`  

### 13.2.1 Inheriting the Starter Parent  
`[inherit v.继承]`  

To configure your project to inherit form the `spring-boot-starter-parent`, set the `parent` as follows:  
```
<!-- Inherit defaults from Spring Boot -->
<parent>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-parent</artifactId>
    <version>2.1.7.BUILD-SNAPSHOT</version>
</parent>
```

You should need to specify only the Spring Boot version number on this dependency. If you import additional starters, you can safely omit the version number.`[additional adj.附加的，额外的]`  

With that setup, you can also override individual dependencies by overriding a property in your own project `[individual adj.个人的；个别的；独特的]`. For instance, to upgrade to another Spring Data release train`[train n.系列；行列；火车]`, you would add the following to your `pom.xml`.  
```
<properties>
    <spring-data-releasetrain.version>Fowler-SR2</spring-data-releasetrain.version>
</properties>
```

Check the `spring-boot-dependencies` [pom](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/tree/master/spring-boot-project/spring-boot-dependencies/pom.xml) for a ist of supported properties.  

### 13.2.2 Using Spring Boot without the Parent POM  
Not everyone likes inheriting from the `spring-boot-starter-parent` POM. You may have your own corporate standard parent that you need to use or you may prefer to explicitly declare all your Maven configuration`[corporate adj.法人的；共同的；全体的；公司的][explicitly adv.明确地；明白地]`.  

If you do not want to use the `spring-boot-starter-parent`, you can still keep the benefit of the dependency management (but not the plugin management) by using a `scope=import` dependency, as follows:  
```
<dependencyManagement>
    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
            <!-- Import dependency management from Spring Boot -->
            <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
            <artifactId>spring-boot-dependencies</artifactId>
            <version>2.1.7.BUILD-SNAPSHOT</version>
            <type>pom</type>
            <scope>import</scope>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>
</dependencyManagement>
```

The preceding sample setup does not let you override individual dependencies by using a property`[preceding adj.在前的；前述的][individual adj.个人的；个别的；独特的]`,  as explained above`[explained v.解释]`. To achieve the same result, you need to add an entry in the `dependencyManagement` of your project before the `spring-boot-dependencies` entry. For instance, to upgrade to another Spring Data release train, you could add the following element to your `pom.xml`:  
```
<dependencyMangement>
    <dependencies>
        <!-- Override Spring Data release train provided by Spring Boot -->
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.springframework.data</groupId>
            <artifactId>spring-data-releasetrain</artifactId>
            <version>Fowler-SR2</version>
            <type>pom</type>
            <scope>import</scope>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
            <artifactId>spring-boot-dependencies</artifactId>
            <version>2.1.7.BUILD-SNAPSHOT</version>
            <type>pom</type>
            <scope>import</scope>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>
</dependencyManagement>
```

In the preceding example, we specify a BOM, but any dependency type can be overridden in the same way.  

### 13.2.3 Using the Spring Boot maven Plugin  
Spring Boot includes a Maven plugin that can package the project as an executable jar. Add the plugin to your `<plugins>` section if you want to use it, as shown in the following example:  
```
<build>
    <plugins>
        <plugin>
            <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
            <artifactId>spring-boot-maven-plugin</artifactId>
        </plugin>
    </plugins>
</build>
```

If you use the Spring Boot starter parent pom, you need to add only the plugin. There is no need to configure it unless you want to change the settings defined in the parent.  

## 13.3  Gradle  
To learn about using Spring Boot with Gradle, please refer to the documentation for Spring Boot's Gradle plugin:  
- Reference([HTML](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.1.7.BUILD-SNAPSHOT/gradle-plugin/reference/html) and [PDF](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.1.7.BUILD-SNAPSHOT/gradle-plugin/reference/pdf/spring-boot-gradle-plugin-reference.pdf))  
- [API](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.1.7.BUILD-SNAPSHOT/gradle-plugin/api)  

## 13.4 Ant
It is possible to build a Spring Boot project using Apache Ant+Ivy. The `spring-boot-antlib` "AntLib" module is also available to help Ant create executable jars. To declare dependencies, a typical `ivy.xml` file looks sometiong like the folllowing example:  
```
<ivy-module version="2.0">
    <info organistaion="org.springframework.boot" module="spring-boot-sample-ant"/>
    <configurations>
        <conf name="compile" description="everything needed to compile this module"/>
        <conf name="runtime" extends="compile" description="everything needed to run this module"/>
    </configurations>
    <dependencies>
        <dependency org="org.springframework.boot" name="spring-boot-starter" rev="${spring-boot.version}" conf="compile"/>
    </dependencies>
</ivy-module>
```
A typical `build.xml` looks like the following example:  
```
<project 
    xmlns:ivy="antlib:org.apache.ivy.ant"
    xmlns:spring-boot="antlib:org.springframework.boot.ant"
    name="myapp" default="build">
    <property name="spring-boot.version" value="2.1.7.BUILD-SNAPSHOT"/>
    <target name="resolve" description="--> retrieve dependencies with ivy">
        <ivy:retrieve pattern="lib/[conf]/[artifact]-[type]-[revision].[ext]" />
    </target>
    <target name="classpaths" depends="resolve">
        <path id="compile.classpath">
            <fileset dir="lib/compile" includes="*.jar"/>
        </path>
    </target>
    <target name="init" depends="classpaths">
        <mkdir dir="build/classes"/>
    </target>
    <target name="compile" depends="init" description="compile">
        <javac srcdir="src/main/java" destdir="build/classes" classpathref="compile.classpath"/>
    </target>
    <target name="build" depends="compile">
        <spring-boot:exejar destfile="build/myapp.jar" classes="build/classes">
            <spring-boot:lib>
                <fileset dir="lib/runtime"/>
            </spring-boot:lib>
        </spring-boot:exejar>
    </target>
</project>
```
If you do not want to use the `spring-boot-antlib` module, see the [Section 91.9,"Build an Executable Archive from Ant without Using `spring-boot-antlib`"](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.1.7.BUILD-SNAPSHOT/reference/html/howto-build.html#howto-build-an-executable-archive-with-ant)"How-to".  

## 13.5 Starters
Starters are a set of convenient dependency descriptors that you can include in your application `[convenient adj.方便的；实用的] [descriptor n.描述符]`. You get a one-stop shop for all the Spring and related technologies that you need without having to hunt through sample code and copy-paste loads of dependency descriptors `[one-stop shop n.一站式服务] [hunt through v.遍历；找遍] [sample n.样本] [loads of adj.大量；许多的]`. For example, if you want to get started using Spring and JPA for database access, include the `spring-boot-starter-data-jpa` dependency in your project.  
The starters contain a lot of the dependencies that you need to get a project up and running quickly and with a consistent, supported set of managed transitive dependencies `[get a project up 启动一个项目] [consistent adj.一致的] [transitive adj.及物的；过渡的；可迁的]`.  
